index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "How To ZEZ"
---

# 🌷
# How To ZEZ

Welcome to Zweckverband Erholungswesen Zschornewitz (ZEZ) ! 

Here you will find all the basic info for the house. Please be sure to complete the [Exit Checklist](#exit-checklist) before you leave 🍄

For current heating info see [🥵 Heating](#heating).

Deutsch version coming soon x

<!-- <a id="deutsch" href="#">auf Deutsch bitte !</a> -->

*Last Updated March 2024*

## Index {#index}

- [📍 Getting Here](#getting-here)
- [💶 Costs](#costs)
- [🏡 At the Haus](#at-the-haus)
	- [🪴 Rooms](#rooms)
	- [🥕 Kitchen & Food](#kitchen)
	- [🛏 Sheets & Towels](#sheets)
	- [🪵 Fireplace & Wood](#fireplace)
	- [🥵 Heating](#heating)
	- [🧺 Laundry](#laundry)
	- [🧹 Chores](#chores)
	- [🔧 Workshop & Tools](#workshop)
- [🏝 Around the Haus](#around-the-haus)
	- [🦆 How to get to the lake](#lake)
	- [🚲 Bikes](#bikes)
	- [🛒 Supermarket/Shops/Letterbox](#shops)
- [✔️ Exit Checklist](#exit-checklist)  

---

## 📍 Getting Here {#getting-here}

### Planning your trip
- Download the app “DB navigator”. This gives you the most accurate train schedules, and you can purchase your train tickets directly on the app. *Google Maps can be unreliable*
- You can use the website bahn.de as well if you have trouble installing the app and get a your ticket at a machine at the station
- The train station closest to the house is called “Gräfenhainichen”
- The bus station closest to the house is called “Zschornewitz Lehrwerkstatt”
- You’re more likely to see ICE/IC (InterCity /Express, fast trains) connections, they are more expensive
- To see cheaper regional trains, under the search options uncheck “show fastest connection”
- A Deutschland Ticket, available for €49 via [bahn.de](https://bahn.de), will cover the costs of regional trains plus any local transport (including Rufbus).
- If you see a “Rufbus” on your connection (calling bus), the bus only goes if it has been called for (after 17h and on the weekends). Make plans with the roommates to pick you up from the train station or make a reservation with the Rufbus using the [mopla app](https://app.mopla.solutions/).

### On your trip
- When you arrive at Gräfenhainichen station, there is the Bus 330 (towards Möhlau) that drops you directly at our street.
- Our stop is called “Zschornewitz Lehrwerkstatt” (you can show the bus driver this name when you get on the bus haha)
For the bus you’ll need some coins for the ticket. Bus not included in the train ticket (unless you have a Deutschland Ticket).
- The timing of when the bus leaves is usually aligned very well with when the S-Bahn train arrives at the train station. It’s always hourly at xx:39 (So if you arrive 14:31 you’ll be able to catch the bus at 14:39 for example).
- If all fails and you can’t reach any of the housemates for a pickup, call the taxi: +49 152 29549135

## Advanced
Zahlenschlossfahrrad in Burgkemnitz


<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 💶 Costs {#costs}

### Short Stays
- Food is €6/day, which includes all meals, snacks, and drinks. We prefer cash (deposited in the Pink Wallet by the kitchen), but can also accept Paypal, address [@zschoenesleben](https://paypal.me/zschoenesleben).
- Accommodation in the house is €15/night. We can take cash or EU bank transfer. Ask Patty for our house IBAN.
- please ask us about solidarity rates.

### Longer Stays
- our rent is €450 per month, which includes all bills. Please ask Patty for the house IBAN.
- Food is still €6/day or €186/month, via cash or paypal.
- we also offer solidarity rates.

### Tricount
- Ask Patty (who is responsible for finances) to show you how to use the Tricount if you are staying for more than one month. 

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 🏡 At the Haus {#at-the-haus}

Feel free to use our [Telegram Group](https://t.me/+diD1q9Kbf8k1ZjFi).

### 🪴 Rooms {#rooms}

#### Ground Floor
- Julie's Room (occupied)
- Tropical Island (occupied)
- The West Wing (occupied)

#### First Floor
- Sun Room (3-6 sleeping places)
- Kimchi Salon (1-2 sleeping places)
- Butterfly Hotel (1-2 sleeping places)
- Twerkstat (occupied)
- Milchstraß (occupied)

#### Second Floor
- Guest Room/Aquarium (2 sleeping places)
- Treehouse (3-4 sleeping places)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🥕 Kitchen & Food {#kitchen}

Please help yourself to anything in the fridge or the cupboards. If there's anything you would like from the shop, add it to the grocery list (check the fridge). We usually cook one group meal per day in the evenings.

#### Trash
Please sort your trash :) There’s an overview on the kitchen wall. When you’ve mastered recycling in Germany you’ll be granted moral citizenship automatically.

- Trash ("Restmüll") &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Recyling (packaging, no leftovers) &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Paper (no handkerchiefs) &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Glass (food containers, wine and sparkling wine bottles) &rarr; **Outside** in front of the front stairs
- Pfand (all cans that had drinks in them, plastic bottles and beer/soda bottles) &rarr; **Outside** in front of the front stairs
- Food scraps/Biomüll (no meat) &rarr; **Kitchen** green compost box

#### Compost / Biomüll
- empty kitchen bin into the compost pile in the garden. See map by the kitchen door or ask a housemate. 

#### Dishwasher
- Tabs are under the sink
- Please keep knives with wooden handles, wooden utensils, and chop sticks out of the dishwasher

#### Basement storage
- You will find extra dry/canned goods (ie pasta, beans, cartoned milk, juices), toilet paper, paper towels and other bits in the basement.
- There’s a big freezer box, usually there’s bread in there.

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🛏 Sheets & Towels {#sheets}

#### Bedding (Bettwäsche)
- Bedding is in the closet by the downstairs bathroom or upstairs in the closet by upstairs bathroom.
- If you notice any used bedding, please throw it in one of the laundry baskets either the upper or lower hallways. Better yet — run a wash !

#### Towels (Handtücher)
- Towels are in between the bottom and first floor in the drawer/closet. 

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🪵 Fireplace & Wood {#fireplace}

While it’s cold we try to keep the fire going 24/7 and ventilate the air to the other rooms. Please keep the doors to the stairways closed. If you are the first person to wake up, please make a fire. Those who live on each floor are responsible for the fireplace on their floor. **One of the things we do is that everyone after waking up gets one box of firewood outside.** Please ask whoever is around at the time what firewood is dry and can be used.

#### How to make a fire
- Take 2 logs and put them flush to the floor, leave a little room so air can get in (using lighter wood in the beginning is easier with some paper)
- Put a good amount of little sticks or bark on top, stack them 2-3 layers and leave room for air flow
- Set fire to wood wool covered with wax and put it between or on top of the twigs, or use a piece of paper.
- Open the ashtray door a little and get the oven as hot as possible with the first round of wood

#### Keeping the fire alive
- Open the door mostly when there are no more flames, take a metal tool and move the embers around (ash falls down and airflow is better)
- You can also put logs on while the fire is on!
- Put 1 or 2 logs in, use the heavier wood (it will burn for longer)
- Don’t worry if there is only little embers left, it’ll catch fire so long the oven is hot still

#### Learnings
- The wood should burn cleanly, without smoke
- If you see black soot building up on the glass and walls, try to raise the temperature by increasing the air flow: Caution, all the handles are too hot to be touched, use a non-plastic piece of cloth! 1. turn the handle on the pipe to a straight position (in the same direction as the pipe, so vertical in this case); 2. Increase the number on the dial behind the cover under the chamber on the left (use the lower scale)
- Don’t over-adjust the airflow regulator. Don’t try to burn the wood slowly, it can produce toxic gases. Starving the fire of air can lead to flash fires (gas detonations) and fire in the chimney. The flames should always be bright and friendly
- Pinewood (soft): 1, pipe valve diagonal
- Hardwood: 2, pipe valve vertical

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🥵 Heating {#heating}
- Hot water should always be available throughout the day. It is being produced during these times: 8:30-11:30, 14-14:20, and 19-22.
- Currently the heating is set to run from **8 - 11**, and again from **19-22:30**
- When a room is heated with heaters, keep the door closed
- When a room is not in use, turn down the thermostat and close the door
- Thermostat numbers determine at what temperature the valve is being closed, so turning it to a higher number does not heat your room more quickly.
- Home heating centre, accessible on our home wifi [http://homeassistant.local:8123](http://homeassistant.local:8123)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🧺 Laundry {#laundry}

- There are 2 machines in the basement in the boiler room. Go to the basement and take two doors on your right hand side
- It's better to use too little than too much detergent (bad for machine and your laundry). Aim for 1-2 shots.
- Leave the tray and door open after use for ventilation in the machines
- Please dry laundry on a drying rack in a heated room or outside
- We do have a dryer, but please use it only as needed to conserve electricity.
- Before using the dryer, remove filter from the bottom corner of the opening and take out fluff (you’ll love it)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🧹 Chores {#chores}

Please do one big chore once a week (usually there is a list on the kitchen door and it is also posted in the At The Haus group every week). You can claim a chore if there’s one you prefer to do, please put your name on the chart!

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🔧 Workshop & Tools {#workshop}

Talk to Jacob before taking tools from the workshop.

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 🏝 Around the Haus {#around-the-haus}

### 🦆 How to get to the lake {#lake}

Go around the house through the back entrance of the garden to the parking lot. Turn left and follow the street to the T-intersection. Turn right, along the sports field. Turn left at Sunny’s Restaurant, along the sports field and follow the road straight ahead through the forest to the forest spot, turn right behind the fence/before entering the forest for the sand beach.

<img src="lake-map.png">

### 🚲 Bikes {#bikes}

We have bikes to borrow. Just ask.

<img src="bikelocks.png">

### 🛒 Supermarket/Shops/Letterbox {#shops}

- Netto is 20 minutes away walking.
- Be sure to check out the Wurstautomat :)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## Exit Checklist {#exit-checklist}

Coming soon !

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

Commit message:

Added username and password for home assistant

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "How To ZEZ"
---

# 🌷
# How To ZEZ

Welcome to Zweckverband Erholungswesen Zschornewitz (ZEZ) ! 

Here you will find all the basic info for the house. Please be sure to complete the [Exit Checklist](#exit-checklist) before you leave 🍄

For current heating info see [🥵 Heating](#heating).

Deutsch version coming soon x

<!-- <a id="deutsch" href="#">auf Deutsch bitte !</a> -->

*Last Updated March 2024*

## Index {#index}

- [📍 Getting Here](#getting-here)
- [💶 Costs](#costs)
- [🏡 At the Haus](#at-the-haus)
	- [🪴 Rooms](#rooms)
	- [🥕 Kitchen & Food](#kitchen)
	- [🛏 Sheets & Towels](#sheets)
	- [🪵 Fireplace & Wood](#fireplace)
	- [🥵 Heating](#heating)
	- [🧺 Laundry](#laundry)
	- [🧹 Chores](#chores)
	- [🔧 Workshop & Tools](#workshop)
- [🏝 Around the Haus](#around-the-haus)
	- [🦆 How to get to the lake](#lake)
	- [🚲 Bikes](#bikes)
	- [🛒 Supermarket/Shops/Letterbox](#shops)
- [✔️ Exit Checklist](#exit-checklist)  

---

## 📍 Getting Here {#getting-here}

### Planning your trip
- Download the app “DB navigator”. This gives you the most accurate train schedules, and you can purchase your train tickets directly on the app. *Google Maps can be unreliable*
- You can use the website bahn.de as well if you have trouble installing the app and get a your ticket at a machine at the station
- The train station closest to the house is called “Gräfenhainichen”
- The bus station closest to the house is called “Zschornewitz Lehrwerkstatt”
- You’re more likely to see ICE/IC (InterCity /Express, fast trains) connections, they are more expensive
- To see cheaper regional trains, under the search options uncheck “show fastest connection”
- A Deutschland Ticket, available for €49 via [bahn.de](https://bahn.de), will cover the costs of regional trains plus any local transport (including Rufbus).
- If you see a “Rufbus” on your connection (calling bus), the bus only goes if it has been called for (after 17h and on the weekends). Make plans with the roommates to pick you up from the train station or make a reservation with the Rufbus using the [mopla app](https://app.mopla.solutions/).

### On your trip
- When you arrive at Gräfenhainichen station, there is the Bus 330 (towards Möhlau) that drops you directly at our street.
- Our stop is called “Zschornewitz Lehrwerkstatt” (you can show the bus driver this name when you get on the bus haha)
For the bus you’ll need some coins for the ticket. Bus not included in the train ticket (unless you have a Deutschland Ticket).
- The timing of when the bus leaves is usually aligned very well with when the S-Bahn train arrives at the train station. It’s always hourly at xx:39 (So if you arrive 14:31 you’ll be able to catch the bus at 14:39 for example).
- If all fails and you can’t reach any of the housemates for a pickup, call the taxi: +49 152 29549135

## Advanced
Zahlenschlossfahrrad in Burgkemnitz


<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 💶 Costs {#costs}

### Short Stays
- Food is €6/day, which includes all meals, snacks, and drinks. We prefer cash (deposited in the Pink Wallet by the kitchen), but can also accept Paypal, address [@zschoenesleben](https://paypal.me/zschoenesleben).
- Accommodation in the house is €15/night. We can take cash or EU bank transfer. Ask Patty for our house IBAN.
- please ask us about solidarity rates.

### Longer Stays
- our rent is €450 per month, which includes all bills. Please ask Patty for the house IBAN.
- Food is still €6/day or €186/month, via cash or paypal.
- we also offer solidarity rates.

### Tricount
- Ask Patty (who is responsible for finances) to show you how to use the Tricount if you are staying for more than one month. 

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 🏡 At the Haus {#at-the-haus}

Feel free to use our [Telegram Group](https://t.me/+diD1q9Kbf8k1ZjFi).

### 🪴 Rooms {#rooms}

#### Ground Floor
- Julie's Room (occupied)
- Tropical Island (occupied)
- The West Wing (occupied)

#### First Floor
- Sun Room (3-6 sleeping places)
- Kimchi Salon (1-2 sleeping places)
- Butterfly Hotel (1-2 sleeping places)
- Twerkstat (occupied)
- Milchstraß (occupied)

#### Second Floor
- Guest Room/Aquarium (2 sleeping places)
- Treehouse (3-4 sleeping places)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🥕 Kitchen & Food {#kitchen}

Please help yourself to anything in the fridge or the cupboards. If there's anything you would like from the shop, add it to the grocery list (check the fridge). We usually cook one group meal per day in the evenings.

#### Trash
Please sort your trash :) There’s an overview on the kitchen wall. When you’ve mastered recycling in Germany you’ll be granted moral citizenship automatically.

- Trash ("Restmüll") &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Recyling (packaging, no leftovers) &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Paper (no handkerchiefs) &rarr; **Kitchen**
- Glass (food containers, wine and sparkling wine bottles) &rarr; **Outside** in front of the front stairs
- Pfand (all cans that had drinks in them, plastic bottles and beer/soda bottles) &rarr; **Outside** in front of the front stairs
- Food scraps/Biomüll (no meat) &rarr; **Kitchen** green compost box

#### Compost / Biomüll
- empty kitchen bin into the compost pile in the garden. See map by the kitchen door or ask a housemate. 

#### Dishwasher
- Tabs are under the sink
- Please keep knives with wooden handles, wooden utensils, and chop sticks out of the dishwasher

#### Basement storage
- You will find extra dry/canned goods (ie pasta, beans, cartoned milk, juices), toilet paper, paper towels and other bits in the basement.
- There’s a big freezer box, usually there’s bread in there.

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🛏 Sheets & Towels {#sheets}

#### Bedding (Bettwäsche)
- Bedding is in the closet by the downstairs bathroom or upstairs in the closet by upstairs bathroom.
- If you notice any used bedding, please throw it in one of the laundry baskets either the upper or lower hallways. Better yet — run a wash !

#### Towels (Handtücher)
- Towels are in between the bottom and first floor in the drawer/closet. 

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🪵 Fireplace & Wood {#fireplace}

While it’s cold we try to keep the fire going 24/7 and ventilate the air to the other rooms. Please keep the doors to the stairways closed. If you are the first person to wake up, please make a fire. Those who live on each floor are responsible for the fireplace on their floor. **One of the things we do is that everyone after waking up gets one box of firewood outside.** Please ask whoever is around at the time what firewood is dry and can be used.

#### How to make a fire
- Take 2 logs and put them flush to the floor, leave a little room so air can get in (using lighter wood in the beginning is easier with some paper)
- Put a good amount of little sticks or bark on top, stack them 2-3 layers and leave room for air flow
- Set fire to wood wool covered with wax and put it between or on top of the twigs, or use a piece of paper.
- Open the ashtray door a little and get the oven as hot as possible with the first round of wood

#### Keeping the fire alive
- Open the door mostly when there are no more flames, take a metal tool and move the embers around (ash falls down and airflow is better)
- You can also put logs on while the fire is on!
- Put 1 or 2 logs in, use the heavier wood (it will burn for longer)
- Don’t worry if there is only little embers left, it’ll catch fire so long the oven is hot still

#### Learnings
- The wood should burn cleanly, without smoke
- If you see black soot building up on the glass and walls, try to raise the temperature by increasing the air flow: Caution, all the handles are too hot to be touched, use a non-plastic piece of cloth! 1. turn the handle on the pipe to a straight position (in the same direction as the pipe, so vertical in this case); 2. Increase the number on the dial behind the cover under the chamber on the left (use the lower scale)
- Don’t over-adjust the airflow regulator. Don’t try to burn the wood slowly, it can produce toxic gases. Starving the fire of air can lead to flash fires (gas detonations) and fire in the chimney. The flames should always be bright and friendly
- Pinewood (soft): 1, pipe valve diagonal
- Hardwood: 2, pipe valve vertical

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🥵 Heating {#heating}
- Hot water should always be available throughout the day. It is being produced during these times: 8:30-11:30, 14-14:20, and 19-22.
- Currently the heating is set to run from **8 - 11**, and again from **19-22:30**
- When a room is heated with heaters, keep the door closed
- When a room is not in use, turn down the thermostat and close the door
- Thermostat numbers determine at what temperature the valve is being closed, so turning it to a higher number does not heat your room more quickly.
- Home heating centre, accessible on our home wifi [http://homeassistant.local:8123](http://homeassistant.local:8123). You can use the username `guest`and password `guest`.

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🧺 Laundry {#laundry}

- There are 2 machines in the basement in the boiler room. Go to the basement and take two doors on your right hand side
- It's better to use too little than too much detergent (bad for machine and your laundry). Aim for 1-2 shots.
- Leave the tray and door open after use for ventilation in the machines
- Please dry laundry on a drying rack in a heated room or outside
- We do have a dryer, but please use it only as needed to conserve electricity.
- Before using the dryer, remove filter from the bottom corner of the opening and take out fluff (you’ll love it)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🧹 Chores {#chores}

Please do one big chore once a week (usually there is a list on the kitchen door and it is also posted in the At The Haus group every week). You can claim a chore if there’s one you prefer to do, please put your name on the chart!

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

### 🔧 Workshop & Tools {#workshop}

Talk to Jacob before taking tools from the workshop.

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## 🏝 Around the Haus {#around-the-haus}

### 🦆 How to get to the lake {#lake}

Go around the house through the back entrance of the garden to the parking lot. Turn left and follow the street to the T-intersection. Turn right, along the sports field. Turn left at Sunny’s Restaurant, along the sports field and follow the road straight ahead through the forest to the forest spot, turn right behind the fence/before entering the forest for the sand beach.

<img src="lake-map.png">

### 🚲 Bikes {#bikes}

We have bikes to borrow. Just ask.

<img src="bikelocks.png">

### 🛒 Supermarket/Shops/Letterbox {#shops}

- Netto is 20 minutes away walking.
- Be sure to check out the Wurstautomat :)

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>

---

## Exit Checklist {#exit-checklist}

Coming soon !

<a class="toplink" href="#index">&uarr; back to index</a>
